A long-distance trail (or long-distance footpath, way, greenway) is a longer recreational trail mainly through rural areas used for hiking, backpacking, cycling, equestrianism or cross-country skiing.[1] They exist on all continents except Antarctica.

Many trails are marked on maps. Typically, a long-distance route will be at least 50 km (30 mi) long, but many run for several hundred miles, or longer.[2]

Many routes are waymarked and may cross public or private land and/or follow existing rights of way. Generally, the surface is not specially prepared, and the ground can be rough and uneven in areas, except in places such as converted rail tracks or popular walking routes where stone-pitching and slabs have been laid to prevent erosion.[3] In some places, official trails will have the surface specially prepared to make the going easier.

History
Historically, and still nowadays in countries where most people move on foot or with pack animals, long-distance trails linked far away towns and regions. Such paths followed "logical" routes, that can be approximated to least-cost paths.[4] The introduction of mechanical and motorized transport during the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century changed all this.[5]

Hiking trails
See also: List of long-distance trails

The Karhunkierros ("Bear's Round"), an 80 km (50 mi) long hiking trail through Oulanka National Park in Kuusamo, Finland
Europe
GR footpaths are long-distance footpaths in Italy, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal (the Alta Via in Italian, Grande Randonnée in French, Grote Routepaden or Lange-afstand-wandelpaden in Dutch, Grande Rota in Portuguese or Gran Recorrido in Spanish).

United Kingdom
See also: List of long-distance footpaths in the United Kingdom and Walking in the United Kingdom
National Trails are a network of officially sanctioned footpaths in the United Kingdom which are well maintained and well way-marked across England and Wales. Examples are the Pennine Way and the South West Coast Path.[6] The equivalent routes in Scotland are styled as Scotland's Great Trails; they include the West Highland Way and the Speyside Way.

The success of the Welsh Government's 870-mile Wales Coast Path prompted an ongoing project of create a similar route for England. When completed, the King Charles III England Coast Path will be around 2,700 miles long.[7]

There are many other recognised, sometimes waymarked, long-distance footpaths in the UK which do not have National Trail status. The Long Distance Walkers Association (LDWA) has the most comprehensive online database of long-distance paths in Britain,[8] and members are able to download GPX files of routes. The association also maintains the LDWA National Trails Register,[9] with different levels of membership for people who have completed five, 10, 15 or all 19 of the National Trails and Great Trails. An annual report is published in April in the association's magazine, Strider.

Republic of Ireland
Main article: Long-distance trails in the Republic of Ireland
The Kerry Way, in south-west Ireland, is the longest of the Irish waymarked trails and circumnavigates the highest mountain range in Ireland.[10] Along with the adjoining Dingle Way it is noted for its scenic views of the Atlantic, loughs and mountains.


Map of European long-distance paths
Asia
Hong Kong
Long-distance trails in Hong Kong:

Hong Kong Trail, Hong Kong
Lantau Trail
MacLehose Trail
Wilson Trail
Japan
Japan has a network of ten long-distance trails called Long Distance Nature Trails. Their creation is the result of a Ministry of Environment initiative to highlight the specific environmental, cultural or historic landscapes through which the trails pass. They also aim to allow hikers a safe and easy hike in any season, as well as raising awareness of the importance of protecting natural spaces and adopting sustainable behaviors.[11]

Long Distance Nature Trails in Japan:

Tokai Nature Trail: 1697 kilometers
Kyūshū Nature Trail (nicknamed Yamabikosan): 2932 kilometers
Chūkoku Nature Trail: 2295 kilometers
Shikoku Nature Trail (nicknamed Shikoku no Michi): 1637 kilometers
Shutoken Nature Trail (nicknamed Kanto Fureai no Michi): 1800 kilometers
Tōhoku Nature Trail (nicknamed Shin Oku no Hosomichi): 4374 kilometers
Chūbu Hokuriku Nature Trail: 4085 kilometers
Kinki Nature Trail: 3296 kilometers
Hokkaidō Nature Trail: 4600 kilometers
Tōhoku Pacific Coast Nature Trail (nicknamed Michinoku Coastal Trail): 1000 kilometers
South America
Brazil
In Brazil, long-distance trails are regulated by two Federal Government decrees, and implemented and managed by government agencies in partnership with many NGOs, such as the Brazilian Trails Network Association[12] (Associação Rede Brasileira de Trilhas in Portuguese) and the Atlantic Forest Trail Institute. The aim is to create a national system of trails that are pleasant to hike, but that also generate employment and income and function as conservation tools by linking protected areas with natural corridors.

There are more than 120 trails in different stages of implementation in 25 of the 27 Brazilian states, connecting all Brazilian biomes. As of January 2022, Brazil has more than 5,500 km of managed trails and another 20,500 km planned.[13]

Long-distance trails in Brazil:

Atlantic Forest Trail: 4270 km[14][15][16]
Transmantiqueira National Trail: 1200 km[17][18]
Transcarioca Trail: 180 km[19][20][21]
Atlantic Amazon Trail: 350 km
Pioneers Route: 390 km
Serra do Mar Trail: 300 km
Coastal trails
Main article: Coastal path

A view from the Hungarian National Blue Trail, incorporated into the European Long-Distance Walking Route E4
These follow coastlines; examples are the Brittany Coast Path in France,[22] the California Coastal Trail in the US,[23] the South West Coast Path in England, the East Coast Trail in Canada, and the Otter Trail in South Africa.

The King Charles III England Coast Path, in development by Natural England, will be around 4,350 kilometres (2,700 mi) long. It is expected to open by the end of 2024 as the longest coastal walking route in the world and Britain's longest National Trail.[24][25]

Coast-to-coast trails
These may be cross-country paths, or may follow roads or other ways, and often intersect with many other trails. Examples are Wainwright's Coast-to-Coast path in northern England, and the GR 10 in France. The English Coast to Coast route, despite being amongst the best-known long-distance walking routes in England, is not an official National Trail, but simply a series of connected pre-existing rights of way, roads and open country with some informal links between them. There is also a coast-to-coast mountain-bike route in northern England that has the same trailheads as the walkers' path. GR 10 is a French GR footpath that runs the length of the Pyrenees Mountains, roughly paralleling the French–Spanish border on the French side. It runs west to east, from Hendaye on the Bay of Biscay to Banyuls-sur-Mer on the Mediterranean Sea.

The American Discovery Trail is a hiking and biking trail that crosses the continental United States from east to west, across the mid-tier of the United States 10,900 kilometres (6,800 mi). Horses can also be ridden on most of this trail. The eastern terminus is the Delmarva Peninsula on the Atlantic Ocean and the western terminus is Point Reyes, on the northern California coast at the Pacific Ocean.[26] The Iditarod Trail connects the coastal cities of Seward and Nome, Alaska: a distance of around 1,600 kilometres (990 mi).

24,000 kilometres (15,000 mi) Trans Canada Trail – Canada
Cross-continent trails
The European long-distance paths (E-paths) traverse Europe, passing through many countries. Among the longest are European walking route E8 and the Iron Curtain Trail (also known as EuroVelo 13). The latter is a partially complete long-distance cycling route which will run along the entire length of the former Iron Curtain. During the period of the Cold War (c. 1947–1991), the Iron Curtain delineated the border between the Communist East and the capitalist West.[27][28]

